 My education at the
**Software University**



This repository contains exercises, exams and projects during my
education at Software University (SoftUni), which are grouped by
modules.

**About the Software University**

The ["Software University" (SoftUni)](https://softuni.bg/about) is based
on the idea of ​​an innovative and modern educational center that
creates real professionals in the programming world. SoftUni offers a
complete [software engineering program](https://softuni.bg/curriculum)
with the most sought-after software technologies, as well as the most
up-to-date teaching practices.

The syllabus is carefully developed with the direct involvement of [IT
companies](https://softuni.bg/partners). It represents a precise
selection of programming courses that respond to the most up-to-date
trends in the world of information technology and software engineering.

Practical training is combined with a variety of *laboratory exercises*
as well as *individual* and *team-based practical projects* through
which students acquire both technical and personal skills that they will
apply in their future work as specialists.

**Entry Module**

The entry module contains only one course - [Programming
Basics](https://softuni.bg/courses/programming-basics).

The "**Programming Basics**" course gives the initial programming skills
required for all Technology specialties at SoftUni. This includes basic
coding skills, work with **integrated development environment** (IDE),
use of **variables** and data, **operators** and **expressions**, work
with the **console** (reading input and output printing), use of
conditional constructions (**if, if-else, switch-case**) and loops
(**for, while, do-while, for-each**).

The course ends with a **practical entrance exam**. All candidates who
managed the exam become students at SoftUni and they continue with their
preparation for software engineers.

**Tech Module**

The “Tech Module” contains two courses – [Programming
Fundamentals](https://softuni.bg/trainings/1568/programming-fundamentals-exended-january-2017)
and [Software
Technologies](https://softuni.bg/trainings/1511/software-technologies-february-2017).

The “**Programming Fundamentals**” course extends the previously gained
basic coding skills from the “[Programming
Basics](https://softuni.bg/courses/programming-basics)” course at the
Software University and adds additional knowledge and practical
programming skills.

The course covers source control systems, **Git** and **GitHub** for
team collaboration, understanding the basic **data types** in
programming, extracting pieces of code into **methods** with parameters
and return value, using the **debugger** to trace the program execution
and find bugs, processing sequences of elements
using **arrays** and **lists**, using **collections**, working
with **matrices** for processing tabular data, working
with **dictionaries** to map keys to values, using **strings** for text
processing, and the basics of working with **classes** and **objects**,
using API classes and defining simple classes.

Along with the programming techniques, the **algorithmic
thinking** and **problem solving** skills are advanced by solving
hundreds of practical programming problems. All exercises and exams are
automatically evaluated with real-time feedback through the [SoftUni
online judge system](https://judge.softuni.bg/). At the end all students
take a **practical programming exam**.

The "**Software Technologies**" course provides initial knowledge of the
most used software technologies in practice and allows students to
choose which technologies they like to study. Basic concepts from
**front-end** and **back-end** development are studied. The course
consists of four parts: **HTML5 development** (HTML + CSS + JavaScript +
AJAX + REST), **PHP Web Development** (PHP + MySQL), **C \# Web
Development** (ASP.NET MVC + Entity Framework + SQL Server), **Java Web
Development** (Java + Spring MVC + Hibernate + MySQL).

The training methodology is extremely practical. The studied material is
presented with few theory, with numerous examples and with a lot of
practical tasks with increasing difficulty. The practical work in class
is done under the supervision of lecturers and assistants is **over
70%**. The course only acquaints the students with the technologies they
are learning and gives them a basic skills. The goal is not to learn the
technologies, but to get acquainted with them.

**Professional Module (C\# Web Developer)**

The **“Professional Module”** contains sub-modules related to the
chosen profession. My chose was C\# Web Developer so the sub-modules
are: **C\# Fundamentals**, **C\# DB Fundamentals**, **C\# Web**, **JS
Core** and **Web Basics**.

**C\# Fundamentals** includes [C\#
Advanced](https://softuni.bg/courses/csharp-advanced), [C\# OOP
Basics](https://softuni.bg/courses/csharp-oop-basics) and [C\# OOP
Advanced](https://softuni.bg/courses/csharp-oop-advanced-high-quality-code).

**C\# Advanced** course examines the **.NET platform**, as well as
working with **C\#** above the startup level. This includes coding
skills, solving problems of medium-algorithmic character (problem
solving skills), getting familiar with the standard work tools (**.NET
Framework**) word processing tools, linear and tree collections, and
working with files and directories. Particular attention is paid to the
functional programming paradigm as well as to the basic tool relying on
it - **LINQ** to process data streams. The course is also dealing with
**asynchronous programming**, and during the training the students are
divided into teams that have to make a practical project.

**C\# OOP Basics** course covers the **Object-Oriented Programming**.

**C\# OOP Advanced** course covers the **High-Quality Code
description**.

**C\# DB Fundamentals** includes [Databases Basics – MS SQL
Server](https://softuni.bg/trainings/1529/databases-advanced-entity-framework-february-2017)
and [Databases Advanced – Entity
Framework](https://softuni.bg/trainings/1529/databases-advanced-entity-framework-february-2017).

**Databases Basics - MS SQL Server** introduces the students to one of
the most widely used database management systems (**DBMS**) used in the
development of modern information systems - Microsoft SQL Server.The
course focuses on relational modeling, data modeling with ER diagrams
(tables and relational links) and SQL operation (data retrieval,
selection, projection, joins, aggregation, grouping, change, deletion,
and insertion). Fundamental knowledge about **ACID transactions** and
transaction processing and practical tips for adjusting productivity are
provided.

**Databases Advanced – Entity Framework** introduces working in details
with a modern ORM technology: **Entity Framework** (EF), which is a
standard for **ORM** in **C\#** and **.NET applications**.

**C\# Web includes** [C\# Web Development
Basics](https://softuni.bg/trainings/1543/csharp-web-development-basics-january-2017)
and [C\# MVC Frameworks –
ASP.NET](https://softuni.bg/trainings/1537/csharp-mvc-frameworks-asp-net-march-2017).

**C\# Web Development Basics** course introduces the students to basic
**web development principles** such as **HTTP** protocol, **sessions**,
**caching** of data, the various data protocols, security. The students
write their own MVC framework based on C \# and MS SQL Server, with the
separation of models, views and controllers, front-controller and
router, support all the basic functionalities needed for a modern web
application: data visualization, tables, CRUD data operations, forms,
paging, validation, notifications, users, sessions, login / logout, and
more.

**C\# MVC Frameworks – ASP.NET** course introduces the students
to **practical development of ASP.NET MVC based Web applications** with
databases, SQL Server, Entity Framework, ASP.NET MVC, the
Model-View-Controller pattern, AJAX and SignalR. The course also covers
some advanced topics, such as Web application security, caching and UI
controls.

**JS Core** includes [JavaScript
Fundamentals](https://softuni.bg/trainings/1649/js-fundamentals-may-2017),
[JavaScript
Advanced](https://softuni.bg/trainings/1650/js-advanced-july-2017) and
[JavaScript
Applications](https://softuni.bg/trainings/1651/js-applications-july-2017).

The **JavaScript Fundamentals** course builds basic programming skills
with JavaScript. JavaScript constructs for building a programming logic,
data types, operators, expressions, conditional constructs, loops, and
function handling are studied. Covers the work with arrays, strings and
regular expressions, use of objects, associative arrays, and multitudes.
The course is based on state-of-the-art standards and JS technologies
(studied ES2017).

**JavaScript Advanced** includes working with object DOM and events,
using the jQuery library, defining JS classes, inheritance and prototype
chains, work with IIFE and closures, using Modules and Transplants, unit
testing.

**JavaScript Applications** includes applications working with AJAX and
jQuery AJAX, asynchronous programming, working with REST API, templating
& routing, the creation of SPA applications, build process, ESLint and
other JS tools.

**Web Basics** includes [Web Fundamentals –
HTML5](https://softuni.bg/trainings/1645/web-fundamentals-html5-may-2017)
and [WordPress
Basics](https://softuni.bg/trainings/1647/wordpress-basics-july-2017).

**Web Fundamentals – HTML5** includes techniques used to design pages
that are comfortable for viewing on a computer or mobile device, ability
to create static web pages, full knowledge of the basics of web design
and building web pages, working with HTML and CSS, creation of modern
web sites, creation of responsive design.

**WordPress Basics** includes creation of complete WordPress sites,
creation and editing web content, working with web hosting, domains and
cPanel, WordPress installation and setup, Installation and setup of
topics and add-ons,  
creation and changing own WP themes.
